ML in Max / RNBO

//

My background (degrees in CS + music tech. + composition, currently at Meta, previously professor of electronic music @ Oberlin Conservatory)
My background in Max (high school obsession, continued engagement in college, main software in dissertation, work with installations)

What is ML?
	Broad definition: we’re building a model (give input, give us some output)
	Some terms worth knowing: features (data points on an element in the system), optimization (getting closer to correct) and loss (delta between reality and model)

	Simple example: 
	Simple linear regression
		Given an input with a single value, determine output
		Number of concerts attended and reported level of happiness over a month
		Can extend to fit to a polynomial of whatever order you want via method of least squares 

	Types of ML:
	Shallow Learning
		Supervised - given a set of samples of kick drums or snare drums (correctly labelled as such) train a model that, when given a sample, determines whether it’s a kick drum or snare drum.
			Example: using Red, Green, and Blue values of the pictures

		Unsupervised - given a ton of unlabelled samples, divide them into groups based on their features
			Example: k-NN on audio samples, Neural Network with hidden layers used to determine relationship between performance gesture input and sonic output

	Simple learning has drawbacks

	Deep Learning
		Tweaking large models (most people don’t have enough processing power to train their own models)
		Ex.: ?

	Generative (a la DALL-E 2 and MusicLM)
		Maximum likelihood estimation (instead of modeling the function, model the distribution and it can produce data for you)
		
How can ML be used in Max, or more broadly, applied to Art?

	(Make a repo. for this)

	Mapping (a la Wekinator)
	Concatenative Synthesis (a la MuBu)
	Timbral manipulation (a la nn~ and RAVE~)

//

Brief introduction to RNBO:
	Output formats: C++ Source Code, JS Web Export, to Device (e.g. raspberry pi), Audio Plug-in (AU/VST), and Max External

	Have examples of all of these, and demonstrate them…

	Caveats: RNBO is not Max, not a 1:1. Can’t have symbols. Also can’t have externals.

	Places to start: demo. examples, pedals, JUCE, community.
	